---
title: "What are the blockchain use cases ?"
publishDate: "21 July 2023"
description: "How the Blockchain will bring fresh air on everyday topics ?"
tags: ["Blockchain"]
author: "Delioos"
---
__@Delioos__
# Introduction

Despite the recent rise of artificial intelligence, the blockchain remains a hot topic in the world of technology.
Everyone talks about it, dreads it or speculates about it. But at the end of the day
what is it good for?

Let's explore the practical uses of this revolutionary technology, which has the
the potential to transform many sectors.

# A free digital currency system

When we talk about blockchain, __Bitcoin__ is often the first name that comes to mind.
This pioneering cryptocurrency was created with the aim of the tyranny of financial institutions and bank robberies.
Using the decentralization and security of the
blockchain, Bitcoin offers a free digital currency, enabling everyone to control
everyone to control their financial assets outside traditional
borders.

A simple Internet connection is all it takes to become the sole master of your funds.

_Revolutionary
in its "simplicity", Bitcoin's purity is unparalleled. But its simplicity
nature runs counter to the development of complex applications._

# The arrival of Solidity

With
the appearance of **Ethereum** and its programming language **Solidity** in late
July 2015, blockchain reached a new milestone. Smart
contracts (contracts deployed on the ethereum blockchain) make it possible to
develop complex decentralized applications **capable of
solving real-life problems**.
The ERCs (Ethereum Request for Comments)
introduced into the protocol have opened up new possibilities,
offering a dynamic and scalable ecosystem for developers.

# The introduction of NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens)

To
simply put, an NFT is simply a special type of token which
represents a single, indivisible asset. These tokens make it possible to
open new doors in the world of art, physical property and many other
property and many other areas that we will explore here.

# Virtualized art

In the art world, NFTs have enabled artists to monetize their work in an unprecedented way. They can create and sell
unique digital pieces of art in the form of NFTs, offering
exclusive and verifiable ownership of these creations.
This has also opened up opportunities for artists to earn
royalties with each resale of the work on the secondary market. To take
a look at trendy collections, from various domains, you can use [opensea](https://opensea.io/) (the market leader).
If speculation is the more attractive  aspect for you, check the competitor [blur](http://blur.io/). They have a great system for mass buying and lending (plus it's decentralized).

# Object traceability in gaming

The video games have suffered for years from problems such as inventory hacks
and dubious resale platforms. However, thanks to
NFTs, these problems can be solved in innovative ways.
Take [Treeverse](https://www.treeverse.net/) as an example,
a game inspired by classics such as Zelda, Dofus and Genshin
Impact. It uses NFTs to manage faction real estate (the [treeverse plots](https://blur.io/collection/treeverse-plots))
and player skins (the [Timeless Characters](https://blur.io/collection/timelessnfts) collection). The
NFTrees are at the heart of the gameplay, allowing players to own unique and
assets.

An other gaming-oriented promising project is [Noobizes](https://www.noobizes.com/), a platform that aspires to replace established
gaming entities like Faceit. Thanks to __the use of game APIs__
and anchoring party scores in the blockchain, "_Noobizes
ensures fair and transparent competition_". Tournament-winnable NFTs
and tokens could bring a real cashflow for the most determined players, **making it possible for them to live from their passion**.

# Passes, membership cards to join DAOs

The
**DAOs** (_Decentralized Autonomous Organizations_) are decentralized
autonomous entities that operate on the blockchain. To
access these communities, NFTs can be used as **passes** guaranteeing **membership of exclusive circles** and
**transparent community governance.**

# Fair remuneration for musicians

The blockchain offers **solutions** for complex problems, such as
**equitable remuneration for musical artists**. Projects like [Bolero](http://www.boleromusic.com/)
use blockchain to enable listeners to fund small
artists directly, _by bypassing intermediaries and ensuring
a fairer distribution of the income generated by music._

# Tracking funds for associations, governments

The **blockchain** _has the potential to revolutionize fund management_ for
**social-profit organizations, and even governments**. For example,
the recently publicized case of the Marianne fund, where money intended to
radicalization was used in a dubious manner,
could be avoided thanks to total traceability of funds on the
blockchain. This technology would **enable unprecedented
transparency**, reassuring citizens as to the use of the funds
collected.

# Conclusion

The blockchain is more than just a technological trend,
_it has the power to profoundly transform our society_. From
free digital currencies to revolutionary NFTs to complex decentralized applications, _blockchain offers innovative solutions
for real-world problems_. As the technology
**continues to grow**, we can expect new use cases to emerge, _changing the way we interact with our digital world.
interact with our digital world_.
